TITLE: U.S. students launch China pickleball tour
PUBLISHED: 2026-08-10 20:32:15
URL: https://english.news.cn/20260810/478d65e986f74380ab8eef2a010c9c9a/c.html

BEIJING, Aug. 10 (Xinhua) -- A group of American students began an eight-day tour of China on Monday to play friendly pickleball matches with their Chinese counterparts.

During the trip to Beijing, Qingdao, a coastal city in eastern China's Shandong Province, and Hebi City in central China's Henan Province, the 24-member delegation from the U.S. state of Iowa will also visit cultural and natural attractions and take part in other sports popular in China, including table tennis and martial arts, according to China's Ministry of Education.

Originating in the United States, pickleball is a paddle sport that blends elements of tennis, badminton and table tennis. The popularity of the three sports in China has helped fuel pickleball's growing appeal across the country.

Hebi, known as China's "Pickleball City," is set to host the national pickleball championships for the third consecutive year in September.

Sports have played a notable role in China-U.S. relations for decades. In 1971, a U.S. table tennis team made a historic trip to China, marking the reopening of channels for friendly people-to-people exchanges between the two countries.

In April, Chinese and American young people gathered for events marking the 55th anniversary of Ping-Pong Diplomacy.

Today, young people are increasingly seen as vital bridges in bilateral relations.

China launched an initiative in November 2023 to invite 50,000 young Americans to visit the country for exchange and educational programs over a five-year period. According to China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more than 50,000 young Americans have since visited China, reaching the target two-and-a-half years ahead of schedule.

The evolution, from Ping-Pong Diplomacy to pickleball exchanges, shows how sports have continued to provide a unique channel for people-to-people exchanges between China and the United States, said an official with the education ministry.

The official expressed hope that young people from both countries will enhance mutual understanding and build friendship through such exchanges, becoming new envoys for friendship between the two countries. ■
